



gen                                                      S. Bradner, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                Harvard University retired
Obsoletes: 5378 (if approved)                          J. Contreras, Ed.
Intended status: Informational                                needs-info
Expires: 10 January 2026                                     9 July 2025


  Rights Contributors Provide to IETF Intellectual Property Management
                              Corporation
            draft-bradner-gen-ipmc-contributor-rights-latest

Abstract

   The IETF policies about rights in Contributions to the IETF are
   designed to ensure that such Contributions can be made available to
   the IETF and Internet communities while permitting the authors to
   retain as many rights as possible.

   This document updates [RFC5378] to change the name of the IETF Trust
   to the IETF IPMC and the editor's contact info, but does not change
   the policies or intellectual property rights in Contributions to the
   IETF from those in [RFC5378].

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://gitnnelg.github.io/ieft-contribution-rights/draft-bradner-
   gen-ipmc-contributor-rights.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   bradner-gen-ipmc-contributor-rights/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the genarea Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:tlp-interest@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/tlp-interest/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/tlp-interest/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/gitnnelg/ietf-contribution-rights.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 10 January 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Conventions and Definitions
   2.  Introduction
     2.1.  No Retroactive Effect
     2.2.  IETF Trust Successor IETF Intellectual Propery Management
           Corporation
     2.3.  Changes from RFC5378
   3.  Exposition of Why These Procedures Are the Way They Are
     3.1.  Rights Granted in Contributions
     3.2.  Rights to Use Contributions
     3.3.  Right to Produce Derivative Works
     3.4.  Rights to Use Trademarks
     3.5.  Contributions Not Subject to Copyright
     3.6.  Copyright in RFCs
   4.  Non-IETF Documents
   5.  Rights in Contributions
     5.1.  General Policy
     5.2.  Confidentiality Obligations
     5.3.  Rights Granted by Contributors to the IETF Intellectual
            Property Management Corporation
     5.4.  Sublicenses by the IETF IPMC
     5.5.  No Patent License
     5.6.  Representations and Warranties
     5.7.  No Duty to Publish
     5.8.  Trademarks
     5.9.  Copyright in RFCs
     5.10. Contributors' Retention of Rights
   6.  Legends, Notices and Other Standardized Text in IETF Documents
   7.  Changes since RFC5378
   8.  Security Considerations
   9.  IANA Considerations
   10. References
     10.1.  Normative References
     10.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Acknowledgments
   Appendenix
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   a.  "Contribution": any submission to the IETF intended by the
   Contributor for publication as all or part of an Internet-Draft or
   RFC (except for RFC Editor Contributions described in Section 4
   below) and any statement made within the context of an IETF activity.
   Such statements include oral statements in IETF sessions as well as
   written and electronic communications, made at any time or place,
   that are addressed to:

   *  the IETF plenary session,

   *  any IETF working group or portion thereof,

   *  any Birds of a Feather (BOF) session,

   *  the IESG, or any member thereof on behalf of the IESG,

   *  the IAB, or any member thereof on behalf of the IAB,

   *  any IETF mailing list, including the IETF list itself, any working
      group or design team list, or any other list functioning under
      IETF auspices,

   *  the RFC Editor or the Internet-Drafts function (except for RFC
      Editor Contributions, as described in Section 4 below).

   Statements made outside of an IETF session, mailing list, or other
   function, that are clearly not intended to be input to an IETF
   activity, group, or function are not IETF Contributions in the
   context of this document.

   b.  "Contributor": an individual submitting a Contribution.

   c.  "Indirect Contributor": any person who has materially or
   substantially contributed to a Contribution without being personally
   involved in its submission to the IETF.

   d.  "Copyright": the legal right granted to an author in a document
   or other work of authorship under applicable law.  A "copyright" is
   not equivalent to a "right to copy".  Rather a copyright encompasses
   all of the exclusive rights that an author has in a work, such as the
   rights to copy, publish, distribute and create derivative works of
   the work.  An author often cedes these rights to his or her employer
   or other parties as a condition of employment or compensation.

   e.  "IETF": in the context of this document, the IETF includes all
   individuals who participate in meetings, working groups, mailing
   lists, functions, and other activities that are organized or
   initiated by ISOC, the IESG, or the IAB under the general designation
   of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), but solely to the
   extent of such participation.

   f.  "IETF Documents": RFCs and Internet-Drafts that are used in the
   IETF Standards Process as defined in 1(g).  This is identical to the
   "IETF stream" defined in [RFC4844].

   g.  "IETF Standards Process": the activities undertaken by the IETF
   in any of the settings described in 1(a) above.

   h.  "IETF Trust": a trust established under the laws of the
   Commonwealth of Virginia, USA, in order to hold and administer
   intellectual property rights for the benefit of the IETF.  The IETF
   Intellectual Property Management Corporation replaced the IETF Trust
   in 2025 as the successor organization.

   i.  "Internet-Draft": temporary documents used in the IETF Standards
   Process.  Internet-Drafts are posted on the IETF web site by the IETF
   Secretariat.  As noted in Section 2.2 of RFC 2026, Internet-Drafts
   have a nominal maximum lifetime of six months in the IETF
   Secretariat's public directory.

   j.  "Legend Instructions": the standardized text that is maintained
   by the IETF Trust and is included in IETF Documents and the
   instructions and requirements for including that standardized text in
   IETF Documents.  The text and instructions are posted from time to
   time at http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info.

   k.  "RFC": the publication series used by the IETF among others.
   RFCs are published by the RFC Editor.  Although RFCs may be
   superseded in whole or in part by subsequent RFCs, the text of an RFC
   is not altered once published in RFC form.  (See [RFC2026]
   Section 2.1.)

   l.  "Reasonably and personally known": something an individual knows
   personally or, because of the job the individual holds, would
   reasonably be expected to know.  This wording is used to indicate
   that an organization cannot purposely keep an individual in the dark
   about certain information just to avoid the disclosure requirement.

   m.  "Non-IETF documents": Internet-Drafts that are submitted to the
   RFC Editor independently of the IETF Standards Process.  (See
   Section 4.)

   n.  "IETF Intellectual Property Management": IETF IPM, the role of
   holding and administering the intellectual property rights for the
   IETF.

   o.  "IETF Intellectual Property Management Corporation": IETF IPMC, A
   Delaware corporation established in 2023 as the legal entity
   supporting the IETF IPM role and the successor entity to the IETF
   Trust.

2.  Introduction

   In all matters of copyright and document procedures, the intent is to
   benefit the Internet community and the public at large, while
   respecting the legitimate rights of others.

   Under the laws of most countries and current international treaties
   (for example the " Convention for the Protection of Literary and
   Artistic Work" [BERNE]), authors obtain numerous rights in the works
   they produce automatically upon producing them.  These rights include
   copyrights, moral rights, and other rights.  In many cases, if the
   author produces a work within the scope of his or her employment,
   most of those rights are usually assigned to the employer, either by
   operation of law or, in many cases, under contract.  (The Berne
   Convention names some rights as "inalienable", which means that the
   author retains them in all cases.)

   In order for Contributions to be used within the IETF Standards
   Process, including when they are published as Internet-Drafts or
   RFCs, certain limited rights must be granted to the IETF Intellectual
   Property Management Corporation (IPMC) , which then grants the
   necessary rights to the IETF.  In addition, Contributors must make
   representations to the IETF IPMC and the IETF regarding their ability
   to grant these rights.

   Section 1 provides definitions used in these policies.  Sections 3
   and 4 of this document explain the rationale for these provisions.
   Sections 1, 2, 5, and 6 of this document are normative, the other
   sections are informative.  RFC 3979 BCP79 [RFC3979] deals with
   rights, including possible patent rights, in technologies developed
   or specified as part of the IETF Standards Process.  This document is
   not intended to address those issues.

   This memo obsoletes RFCs [RFC5378], [RFC3978] and [RFC4748] and, with
   RFC 3979 BCP79 and [RFC5377], replaces Section 10 of RFC 2026
   [RFC2026].

   This document is not intended as legal advice.  Readers are advised
   to consult their own legal advisors if they would like a legal
   interpretation of their rights or the rights of the IETF IPMC
   [RFC4371] in any Contributions they make.

2.1.  No Retroactive Effect

   This memo does not retroactively obtain additional rights from
   Contributions that predate the date that the IETF Intellectual
   Property Management Corporation announces the adoption of these
   procedures.

2.2.  IETF Trust Successor IETF Intellectual Propery Management
      Corporation

   In 2025 the IETF Intellectual Property Management Corporation (IETF
   IPMC) replaced the IETF Trust providing intellectual property
   management to the IETF.

   The rights granted and held by the IETF Trust were assigned to the
   IETF IPMC.  Mentions of the IETF Trust in this memo and prior
   versions should be understood to now refer to the IETF IPMC.

2.3.  Changes from RFC5378

   This document does not change the IETF intellectual property rights
   from what is described in [RFC5378] other than to update mentions of
   the IETF Trust with the IETF Intellectual Property Management
   Corporation and references and links previously to the IETF Trust
   website to the IETF IPMC website.

3.  Exposition of Why These Procedures Are the Way They Are

3.1.  Rights Granted in Contributions

   The IETF IPMC and the IETF must obtain the right to publish an IETF
   Contribution as an RFC or an Internet-Draft from the Contributors.

   A primary objective of this policy is to obtain from the document
   authors only the non-exclusive rights that are needed to develop and
   publish IETF Documents and to use IETF Contributions in the IETF
   Standards Process and potentially elsewhere.

   The authors retain all other rights, but cannot withdraw the above
   rights from the IETF IPMC and the IETF.

   It is important to note that under this document, Contributors are
   required to grant certain rights to the IETF IPMC (see Section 5.3.),
   which holds all IETF-related intellectual property on behalf of the
   IETF community.  The IETF IPMC will, in turn, grant a sublicense of
   these rights to all IETF participants for use in the IETF Standards
   Process (see Section 5.4.).  This sublicense is necessary for the
   standards development work of the IETF to continue.  In addition, the
   IETF IPMC may grant certain other sublicenses of the rights that it
   is granted under this document.  In granting such other sublicenses,
   the IETF IPMC will be guided and bound by documents such as
   [RFC5377].

3.2.  Rights to Use Contributions

   It is important that the IETF receive assurances from all
   Contributors that they have the authority to grant the IETF the
   rights that they claim to grant because, under the laws of most
   countries and applicable international treaties, copyright rights
   come into existence when a work of authorship is created (but see
   Section 3.5 below regarding public domain documents), and the IETF
   cannot make use of IETF Contributions if it does not have sufficient
   rights with respect to these copyright rights.  The IETF and its
   participants would run a greater risk of liability to the owners of
   these rights without this assurance.  To this end, the IETF asks
   Contributors to give the assurances in Section 5.6 below.  These
   assurances are requested, however, only to the extent of the
   Contributor's reasonable and personal knowledge.  (See Section 1(l).)

3.3.  Right to Produce Derivative Works

   The IETF needs to be able to evolve IETF Documents in response to
   experience gained in the deployment of the technologies described in
   such IETF Documents, to incorporate developments in research, and to
   react to changing conditions on the Internet and other IP networks.
   The IETF may also decide to permit others to develop derivative works
   based on Contributions.  In order to do this, the IETF must be able
   to produce derivatives of its documents; thus, the IETF must obtain
   the right from Contributors to produce derivative works.  Note that
   the right to produce translations is required before any Contribution
   can be published as an RFC, to ensure the widest possible
   distribution of the material in RFCs.  The right to produce
   derivative works, in addition to translations, is required for all
   IETF Standards Track documents and for most IETF non-Standards Track
   documents.  There are two exceptions to this requirement: documents
   describing proprietary technologies and documents that are
   republications of the work of other standards organizations.

   The right to produce derivative works must be granted in order for an
   IETF working group to accept a Contribution as a working group
   document or otherwise work on it.  For non-working group
   Contributions where the Contributor requests publication as a
   Standards Track RFC, the right to produce derivative works must be
   granted before the IESG will issue an IETF Last Call and, for most
   non-Standards Track, non-working group Contributions, before the IESG
   will consider the Internet-Draft for publication.  Occasionally a
   Contributor may not want to grant publication rights or the right to
   produce derivative works before finding out if a Contribution has
   been accepted for development in the IETF Standards Process.  In
   these cases, the Contributor may include a limitation on the right to
   make derivative works in the form specified in the Legend
   Instructions.  A working group can discuss the Contribution with the
   aim to decide if it should become a working group document, even
   though the right to produce derivative works or to publish the
   Contribution as an RFC has not yet been granted.  However, if the
   Contribution is accepted for development, the Contributor must
   resubmit the Contribution without the limitation notices before a
   working group can formally adopt the Contribution as a working group
   document.  The IETF Trust may establish different policies for
   granting sublicenses with respect to different types of Contributions
   and content within Contributions (such as executable code versus
   descriptive text or references to third-party materials).  The IETF
   Trust's policies concerning the granting of sublicenses to make
   derivative works will be guided by RFC [RFC5377].

   The IETF has historically encouraged organizations to publish details
   of their technologies, even when the technologies are proprietary,
   because understanding how existing technology is being used helps
   when developing new technology.  But organizations that publish
   information about proprietary technologies are frequently not willing
   to have the IETF produce revisions of the technologies and then
   possibly claim that the IETF version is the "new version" of the
   organization's technology.  Organizations that feel this way can
   specify that a Contribution be published with the other rights
   granted under this document but may withhold the right to produce
   derivative works other than translations.

   In addition, IETF Documents frequently make normative references to
   standards or recommendations developed by other standards
   organizations.  Since the publications of some standards
   organizations are not public documents, it can be quite helpful to
   the IETF to republish, with the permission of the other standards
   organization, some of these documents as RFCs so that the IETF
   community can have open access to them to better understand what they
   are referring to.  In these cases, the RFCs can be published without
   the right for the IETF to produce derivative works.  In both of the
   above cases, in which the production of derivative works is excluded,
   the Contributor must include a special legend in the Contribution, as
   specified in the Legend Instructions, in order to notify IETF
   participants about this restriction.

3.4.  Rights to Use Trademarks

   Contributors may wish to seek trademark or service mark protection on
   any terms that are coined or used in their Contributions.  The IETF
   makes no judgment about the validity of any such trademark rights.
   However, the IETF requires each Contributor, under the licenses
   described in Section 5.3 below, to grant the IETF IPMC a perpetual
   license to use any such trademarks or service marks solely in
   exercising rights to reproduce, publish, discuss, and modify the IETF
   Contribution.  This license does not authorize the IETF or others to
   use any trademark or service mark in connection with any product or
   service offering.

3.5.  Contributions Not Subject to Copyright

   Certain documents, including those produced by the U.S. government
   and those which are in the public domain, may not be protected by the
   same copyright and other legal rights as other documents.
   Nevertheless, we ask each Contributor to grant to the IETF the same
   rights he or she would grant, and to make the same representations,
   as though the IETF Contribution were protected by the same legal
   rights as other documents, and as though the Contributor could be
   able to grant these rights.  We ask for these grants and
   representations only to the extent that the Contribution may be
   protected.  We believe they are necessary to protect the ISOC, the
   IETF IPMC, the IETF, the IETF Standards Process, and all IETF
   participants, and because the IETF does not have the resources or
   wherewithal to make any independent investigation as to the actual
   proprietary status of any document submitted to it.

3.6.  Copyright in RFCs

   As noted above, Contributors to the IETF (or their employers) retain
   ownership of the copyright in their Contributions.  This includes
   Internet-Drafts and all other Contributions made within the IETF
   Standards Process (e.g., via e-mail, oral comment, and otherwise).
   However, it is important that the IETF (through the IETF IPMC) own
   the copyright in documents that are published as RFCs (other than
   Informational RFCs and RFCs that are submitted as RFC Editor
   Contributions).  Ownership of the copyright in an RFC does not
   diminish the Contributors' rights in their underlying contributions,
   but it does prevent anyone other than the IETF IPMC (and its
   licensees) from republishing or modifying an RFC in RFC format.  In
   this respect, Contributors are treated the same as anybody else:
   though they may extract and republish their own Contributions without
   limitation, they may not do so in the RFC format used by the IETF.
   And while this principle (which is included in Section 5.9 below) may
   appear to be new to the IETF, it actually reflects historical
   practice and has been observed for many years through the inclusion
   of an ISOC or IETF Trust copyright notice on all RFC documents since
   the publication of [RFC2026].

4.  Non-IETF Documents

   This document only relates to Contributions made as part of the IETF
   Processes.  Other documents that are referred to as Internet-Drafts
   and RFCs may be submitted to and published by the RFC Editor
   independently of the IETF Standards Process.  Such documents are not
   covered by this document, unless the controlling entity for that
   document stream, as described in [RFC4844] chooses to apply these
   rules.  Non-IETF Contributions must be marked appropriately as
   described in the Legend Instructions.  See the RFC Editor web page
   for information about the policies concerning rights in RFC Editor
   Documents; for other document streams, the controlling entity must be
   contacted.  See Section 11 for a declaration from the IAB on this
   matter.

5.  Rights in Contributions

5.1.  General Policy

   By submission of a Contribution, each person actually submitting the
   Contribution and each named co-Contributor is deemed to have read and
   understood the rules and requirements set forth in this document.
   Each Contributor is deemed, by the act of submitting a Contribution,
   to enter into a legally-binding agreement to comply with the terms
   and conditions set forth in this document.

   The Contributor is further deemed to have agreed that he/she has
   obtained the necessary permissions to enter into such an agreement
   from any party that the Contributor reasonably and personally knows
   may have rights in the Contribution, including, but not limited to,
   the Contributor's sponsor or employer.

   No further acknowledgment, signature, or other action is required to
   bind a Contributor to these terms and conditions.  The operation of
   the IETF and the work conducted by its many participants is dependent
   on such agreement by each Contributor, and each IETF participant
   expressly relies on the agreement of each Contributor to the terms
   and conditions set forth in this document.

5.2.  Confidentiality Obligations

   No information or document that is subject to any requirement of
   confidentiality or any restriction on its dissemination may be
   submitted as a Contribution or otherwise considered in any part of
   the IETF Standards Process, and there must be no assumption of any
   confidentiality obligation with respect to any Contribution.  Each
   Contributor agrees that any statement in a Contribution, whether
   generated automatically or otherwise, that states or implies that the
   Contribution is confidential or subject to any privilege, can be
   disregarded for all purposes, and will be of no force or effect.

5.3.  Rights Granted by Contributors to the IETF Intellectual Property
      Management Corporation

   To the extent that a Contribution or any portion thereof is protected
   by copyright or other rights of authorship, the Contributor and each
   named co-Contributor grant a perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive,
   royalty-free, world-wide, sublicensable right and license to the IETF
   IPMC under all such copyrights and other rights in the Contribution:

   a. to copy, publish, display, and distribute the Contribution, in
   whole or in part,

   b. to prepare translations of the Contribution into languages other
   than English, in whole or in part, and to copy, publish, display, and
   distribute such translations or portions thereof,

   c. to modify or prepare derivative works (in addition to
   translations) that are based on or incorporate all or part of the
   Contribution, and to copy, publish, display, and distribute such
   derivative works, or portions thereof unless explicitly disallowed in
   the notices contained in a Contribution (in the form specified by the
   Legend Instructions), and

   d. to reproduce any trademarks, service marks, or trade names which
   are included in the Contribution solely in connection with the
   reproduction, distribution, or publication of the Contribution and
   derivative works thereof as permitted by this Section 5.3, provided
   that when reproducing Contributions, trademark and service mark
   identifiers used in the Contribution, including TM and (R), will be
   preserved.

5.4.  Sublicenses by the IETF IPMC

   The IETF IPMC will sublicense the rights granted to it under
   Section 5.3 to all IETF participants for use within the IETF
   Standards Process.  This license is expressly granted under a license
   agreement issued by the IETF Trust, which can be found at
   http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info.

   This license is expressly granted under a license agreement issued by
   the IETF IPMC and must contain a pointer to the full IETF IPMC
   agreement.

   In addition, the IETF IPMC may grant additional sublicenses of the
   licenses granted to it hereunder.  In doing so, the IETF IPMC will
   comply with the guidance provided under [RFC5377].

5.5.  No Patent License

   The licenses granted in Section 5.3 shall not be deemed to grant any
   right under any patent, patent application, or other similar
   intellectual property right disclosed by the Contributor under BCP 79
   [RFC3979] or otherwise.

5.6.  Representations and Warranties

   With respect to each Contribution, each Contributor represents that,
   to the best of his or her knowledge and ability:

   a.  The Contribution properly acknowledges all Contributors,
   including Indirect Contributors.

   b.  No information in the Contribution is confidential, and the IETF,
   IETF Trust, IETF IPMC, ISOC, and its affiliated organizations may
   freely disclose any information in the Contribution.

   c.  There are no limits to the Contributor's ability to make the
   grants, acknowledgments, and agreements herein that are reasonably
   and personally known to the Contributor.

   d.  The Contributor has not intentionally included in the
   Contribution any material that is defamatory or untrue or which is
   illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Contributor
   has his or her principal place of business or residence.

   e.  All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and other proprietary
   names used in the Contribution that are reasonably and personally
   known to the Contributor are clearly designated as such where
   reasonable.

5.7.  No Duty to Publish

   The Contributor, and each named co-Contributor, acknowledges that the
   IETF has no duty to publish or otherwise use or disseminate any
   Contribution.  The IETF reserves the right to withdraw or cease using
   any Contribution that does not comply with the requirements of this
   Section 5.

5.8.  Trademarks

   Contributors who claim trademark rights in terms used in their IETF
   Contributions are requested to state specifically what conditions
   apply to implementers of the technology relative to the use of such
   trademarks.  Such statements should be submitted in the same way as
   is done for other intellectual property claims.  (See [RFC3979]
   Section 6.)

5.9.  Copyright in RFCs

   Subject to each Contributor's (or its sponsor's) ownership of its
   underlying Contributions as described in Section 5.6 (which ownership
   is qualified by the irrevocable licenses granted under Section 5.3),
   each Contributor hereby acknowledges that the copyright in any RFC in
   which such Contribution is included, other than an RFC that is an RFC
   Editor Contribution, shall be owned by the IETF Intellectual Property
   Management Corporation.  Such Contributor shall be deemed to assign
   to the IETF IPMC such Contributor's copyright interest in the
   collective work constituting such RFC upon the submission of such RFC
   for publication, and acknowledges that a copyright notice
   acknowledging the IETF IPMC's ownership of the copyright in such RFC
   will be included in the published RFC.

5.10.  Contributors' Retention of Rights

   Although Contributors provide specific rights to the IETF, it is not
   intended that this should deprive them of their right to exploit
   their Contributions.  To underscore this principle, the IETF IPMC is
   directed to issue a license or assurance to Contributors, which
   confirms that they may each make use of their Contributions as
   published in an RFC in any way they wish, subject only to the
   restriction that no Contributor has the right to represent any
   document as an RFC, or equivalent of an RFC, if it is not a full and
   complete copy or translation of the published RFC.

6.  Legends, Notices and Other Standardized Text in IETF Documents

   The IETF requires that certain standardized text be reproduced
   verbatim in certain IETF Documents (including copies, derivative
   works, and translations of IETF Documents).  Some of this
   standardized text may be mandatory (e.g., copyright notices and
   disclaimers that must be included in all RFCs) and some may be
   optional (e.g., limitations on the right to make derivative works).
   The text itself, as well as the rules that explain when and how it
   must be used, is contained in the Legend Instructions.  The Legend
   Instructions may be updated from time to time, and the version of the
   standardized text that must be included in IETF Documents is that
   which was posted in the Legend Instructions on the date of
   publication.

   The IETF reserves the right to refuse to publish Contributions that
   do not include the legends and notices required by the Legend
   Instructions.

   It is important to note that each Contributor grants the IETF IPMC
   rights pursuant to this document and the policies described herein.
   The legends and notices included in certain written Contributions
   such as Internet-Drafts do not themselves convey any rights.  They
   are simply included to inform the reader (whether or not part of the
   IETF) about certain legal rights and limitations associated with such
   documents.

   It is also important to note that additional copyright notices are
   not permitted in IETF Documents except in the case where such
   document is the product of a joint development effort between the
   IETF and another standards development organization or is a
   republication of the work of another standards development
   organization.  Such exceptions must be approved on an individual
   basis by the IAB.

7.  Changes since RFC5378

   This document does not change the intellectual property polices from
   [RFC5378], those remain as they previously were.

   The edits made are replacing mentions of the IETF Trust with the IETF
   Intellectual Property Management Corporation (IPMC) and mentions of
   the IETF Trust website with the IETF IPMC website as needed to
   recogninzed the change from the IETF Trust to the IETF IPMC.

8.  Security Considerations

   This memo relates to the IETF process, not any particular technology.
   There are security considerations when adopting any technology, but
   there are no known issues of security with IETF Contribution rights
   policies.

9.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

   [RFC4748]  Bradner, S., Ed., "RFC 3978 Update to Recognize the IETF
              Trust", RFC 4748, DOI 10.17487/RFC4748, October 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4748>.

   [RFC3978]  Bradner, S., Ed., "IETF Rights in Contributions",
              RFC 3978, DOI 10.17487/RFC3978, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3978>.

   [RFC5377]  Halpern, J., Ed., "Advice to the Trustees of the IETF
              Trust on Rights to Be Granted in IETF Documents",
              RFC 5377, DOI 10.17487/RFC5377, November 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5377>.

   [RFC3979]  Bradner, S., Ed., "Intellectual Property Rights in IETF
              Technology", RFC 3979, DOI 10.17487/RFC3979, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3979>.

   [RFC5378]  Bradner, S., Ed. and J. Contreras, Ed., "Rights
              Contributors Provide to the IETF Trust", BCP 78, RFC 5378,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5378, November 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5378>.

   [RFC2026]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, DOI 10.17487/RFC2026, October 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026>.

   [RFC4371]  Carpenter, B., Ed. and L. Lynch, Ed., "BCP 101 Update for
              IPR Trust", RFC 4371, DOI 10.17487/RFC4371, January 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4371>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

   [RFC4844]  Daigle, L., Ed. and IAB, "The RFC Series and RFC Editor",
              RFC 4844, DOI 10.17487/RFC4844, July 2007,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4844>.

10.2.  Informative References

   [BERNE]    "Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic
              Work", n.d., <http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/ip/>.

Appendix A.  Acknowledgments

   The IETF Trustees and IETF Intellectual Property Management
   Corporation directors during the restructuring of the IETF Trust to
   the IETF IPMC were: Glenn Deen, John Levine, Joel Halpern, Kathleen
   Moriarty, Victor Kuarsingh, Jon Peterson, Kristin Berdan, Wendy
   Seltzer

Appendenix

Authors' Addresses

   Scott Bradner (editor)
   Harvard University retired
   Email: sob@sobco.com


   Jorge Contreras (editor)
   needs-info
   Email: needs-info@example.com
